feat: default env and container docs (#79)
flox/floxdocs: docs/concepts/flox-vs-containers.md

---
Title: Flox vs. container workflows
Description: How does a Flox workflow differ from a container workflow?
---

# Flox vs. container workflows

Containers are everywhere these days.

> They're the de-facto deployment method in the industry,

Reviewer: **nitpick:** I'd suggest that *de facto* as a Latin phrase doesn't really need a hyphen; maybe go with italics if you want to be pretentious. Otherwise, just "de facto" will do fine.

developer gets the same environment.

Flox gives you these same benefits without many of the papercuts,
but the workflow is slightly different so it's worth exploring.

## Create a new development environment

Let's say you've created a new directory for your project,
`myproject`,
and entered it:

```bash
$ mkdir myproject
$ cd myproject
```

=== "Flox"

    Create a Flox environment for the project via [`flox init`][init]:

    ```bash
    $ flox init
    ```

    This creates a `.flox` directory in `myproject`.
    At this point you can enter the environment,
    but it doesn't provide any new packages or functionality.

=== "Containers"

    Create a new `Dockerfile`.

    ```bash
    $ touch Dockerfile
    ```

    At this point the `Dockerfile` isn't really useable since it doesn't say which
    image to build on top of (there's no `FROM` line).
    Let's pick the latest Ubuntu LTS release.

    ```bash
    $ echo "FROM ubuntu:noble" >> Dockerfile
    ```

    This already adds some variability in that which image this refers to may
    change from moment to moment.

---

## Add packages

Now let's install some packages.

> In a typical project there's usually different subsets of packages:

Reviewer: **nitpick:** There's a subject–verb agreement issue here, though the tone is conversational so it may not matter.
```suggestion
In a typical project there are usually different subsets of packages:
```

- Packages you don't care about too much, so the latest version will suffice.

> - Packages whose versions you want pinned to a recent version.

Reviewer: **nitpick:** This is a stylistic quibble, but I'd use "of which" instead of "whose" here given that we're not talking about persons. That may come off sounding a bit stodgy though, and I doubt anyone will misunderstand "whose." Your call on whether or not to change it!
```suggestion
- Packages the versions of which you want pinned to a recent version.
```
